docs/docs/providers/overview.md, before:

# Provider Configuration

Metriq-Gym supports multiple quantum hardware providers through a unified interface built on [qBraid Runtime](https://docs.qbraid.com/runtime/).

## Supported Providers

| Provider | Provider ID | Description |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
| [IBM Quantum](ibm.md) | `ibm` | IBM's quantum computers and simulators |
| [IonQ](ionq.md) | `ionq` | IonQ trapped-ion quantum computers |
| [AWS Braket](braket.md) | `braket` | Amazon Braket quantum computing service |
| [Azure Quantum](azure.md) | `azure` | Microsoft Azure Quantum |
| [Quantinuum](quantinuum.md) | `quantinuum` | Quantinuum H-series trapped-ion systems |
| [OriginQ](originq.md) | `origin` | OriginQ Wukong superconducting systems |
| [Local Simulators](local.md) | `local` | Qiskit Aer local simulation |

## Provider Architecture

Metriq-Gym uses two types of provider integrations:

### qBraid-Managed Providers

IBM, IonQ, Braket, and Azure use qBraid Runtime's native provider support:

```python
from qbraid.runtime import load_provider
provider = load_provider("ibm")
```

### Custom Providers

Local, Quantinuum (NEXUS), and OriginQ use custom provider implementations registered via entry points:

```python
# Registered in pyproject.toml
[project.entry-points."qbraid.providers"]
local = "metriq_gym.local.provider:LocalProvider"
quantinuum = "metriq_gym.quantinuum.provider:QuantinuumProvider"
origin = "metriq_gym.origin.provider:OriginProvider"
```

## Credential Configuration

Create a `.env` file in your project root with provider credentials:

```bash
# Copy the template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit with your credentials
nano .env
```

### Environment Variables Reference

| Variable | Provider | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `QISKIT_IBM_TOKEN` | IBM | IBM Cloud API key |
| `QISKIT_IBM_CHANNEL` | IBM | Channel type (optional) |
| `QISKIT_IBM_INSTANCE` | IBM | Instance CRN (optional) |
| `IONQ_API_KEY` | IonQ | IonQ API key |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | Braket | AWS access key |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Braket | AWS secret key |
| `AZURE_QUANTUM_CONNECTION_STRING` | Azure | Azure connection string |
| `QUANTINUUM_NEXUS_USERNAME` | Quantinuum | NEXUS username |
| `QUANTINUUM_NEXUS_PASSWORD` | Quantinuum | NEXUS password |
| `ORIGIN_API_KEY` | OriginQ | OriginQ API token |

## Device Selection

List available devices for a provider:

```python
from metriq_gym.run import load_provider

provider = load_provider("ibm")
devices = provider.get_devices()
for device in devices:
    print(f"{device.id}: {device.status}")
```

Via CLI, use provider-specific documentation to find device names.

## Common Patterns

### Dispatch to Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider ibm --device ibm_fez
```

### Dispatch to Simulator with Noise Model

```bash
# Use local provider with IBM noise model
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider local --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

### Check Job Status

```bash
mgym job poll <JOB_ID>
```

## Next Steps

- [IBM Quantum](ibm.md) - IBM Quantum Platform setup
- [IonQ](ionq.md) - IonQ Cloud setup
- [AWS Braket](braket.md) - Amazon Braket setup
- [Azure Quantum](azure.md) - Azure Quantum setup
- [Quantinuum](quantinuum.md) - Quantinuum NEXUS setup
- [OriginQ](originq.md) - OriginQ Wukong setup
- [Local Simulators](local.md) - Running benchmarks locally

Commit message:

chore: adding why we chose qbraid reasons

docs/docs/providers/overview.md, after:

# Provider Configuration

Metriq-Gym supports multiple quantum hardware providers through a unified interface built on [qBraid Runtime](https://docs.qbraid.com/runtime/).

## Why qBraid?

We chose qBraid Runtime as our provider abstraction layer for several reasons:

- **Unified interface**: qBraid provides consistent APIs for common device operations (transpilation, job submission, result retrieval) across different providers, reducing provider-specific code paths that could introduce variability in benchmark execution.
- **Extensibility**: The provider interface is straightforward to extend. We've used it to add support for providers that qBraid doesn't natively support, including OriginQ and Quantinuum (via NEXUS).
- **Transpilation consistency**: Using a common transpilation pipeline helps ensure that circuit transformations are applied consistently across providers, which is important for fair benchmark comparisons.

Note that benchmarks executed through qBraid may differ slightly from those run through native provider SDKs due to differences in transpilation strategies or default settings. For reproducibility, Metriq-Gym records the software versions and configuration used for each benchmark run.

## Supported Providers

| Provider | Provider ID | Description |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
| [IBM Quantum](ibm.md) | `ibm` | IBM's quantum computers and simulators |
| [IonQ](ionq.md) | `ionq` | IonQ trapped-ion quantum computers |
| [AWS Braket](braket.md) | `braket` | Amazon Braket quantum computing service |
| [Azure Quantum](azure.md) | `azure` | Microsoft Azure Quantum |
| [Quantinuum](quantinuum.md) | `quantinuum` | Quantinuum H-series trapped-ion systems |
| [OriginQ](originq.md) | `origin` | OriginQ Wukong superconducting systems |
| [Local Simulators](local.md) | `local` | Qiskit Aer local simulation |

## Provider Architecture

Metriq-Gym uses two types of provider integrations:

### qBraid-Managed Providers

IBM, IonQ, Braket, and Azure use qBraid Runtime's native provider support:

```python
from qbraid.runtime import load_provider
provider = load_provider("ibm")
```

### Custom Providers

Local, Quantinuum (NEXUS), and OriginQ use custom provider implementations registered via entry points:

```python
# Registered in pyproject.toml
[project.entry-points."qbraid.providers"]
local = "metriq_gym.local.provider:LocalProvider"
quantinuum = "metriq_gym.quantinuum.provider:QuantinuumProvider"
origin = "metriq_gym.origin.provider:OriginProvider"
```

## Credential Configuration

Create a `.env` file in your project root with provider credentials:

```bash
# Copy the template
cp .env.example .env

# Edit with your credentials
nano .env
```

### Environment Variables Reference

| Variable | Provider | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `QISKIT_IBM_TOKEN` | IBM | IBM Cloud API key |
| `QISKIT_IBM_CHANNEL` | IBM | Channel type (optional) |
| `QISKIT_IBM_INSTANCE` | IBM | Instance CRN (optional) |
| `IONQ_API_KEY` | IonQ | IonQ API key |
| `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` | Braket | AWS access key |
| `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Braket | AWS secret key |
| `AZURE_QUANTUM_CONNECTION_STRING` | Azure | Azure connection string |
| `QUANTINUUM_NEXUS_USERNAME` | Quantinuum | NEXUS username |
| `QUANTINUUM_NEXUS_PASSWORD` | Quantinuum | NEXUS password |
| `ORIGIN_API_KEY` | OriginQ | OriginQ API token |

## Device Selection

List available devices for a provider:

```python
from metriq_gym.run import load_provider

provider = load_provider("ibm")
devices = provider.get_devices()
for device in devices:
    print(f"{device.id}: {device.status}")
```

Via CLI, use provider-specific documentation to find device names.

## Common Patterns

### Dispatch to Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider ibm --device ibm_fez
```

### Dispatch to Simulator with Noise Model

```bash
# Use local provider with IBM noise model
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider local --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

### Check Job Status

```bash
mgym job poll <JOB_ID>
```

## Next Steps

- [IBM Quantum](ibm.md) - IBM Quantum Platform setup
- [IonQ](ionq.md) - IonQ Cloud setup
- [AWS Braket](braket.md) - Amazon Braket setup
- [Azure Quantum](azure.md) - Azure Quantum setup
- [Quantinuum](quantinuum.md) - Quantinuum NEXUS setup
- [OriginQ](originq.md) - OriginQ Wukong setup
- [Local Simulators](local.md) - Running benchmarks locally
