docs/content/providers/braket.md, before:

# AWS Braket

Run benchmarks on quantum computers through Amazon Braket.

## Prerequisites

- An [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com)
- AWS credentials with Braket permissions
- (Optional) An S3 bucket for job results

## Setup

### 1. Get AWS Credentials

1. Log in to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com)
2. Navigate to **IAM > Users > Your User > Security credentials**
3. Create an access key

### 2. Configure Environment

Add to your `.env` file:

```bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<your-access-key>"
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<your-secret-key>"
```

Optionally, set your default region:

```bash
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

## Available Devices

AWS Braket provides access to multiple hardware providers:

### IonQ (via Braket)

| Device | Qubits |
|--------|--------|
| `arn:aws:braket:us-east-1::device/qpu/ionq/Aria-1` | 25 |
| `arn:aws:braket:us-east-1::device/qpu/ionq/Forte-1` | 36 |

### Rigetti

| Device | Qubits |
|--------|--------|
| `arn:aws:braket:us-west-1::device/qpu/rigetti/Ankaa-3` | 84 |

### IQM

| Device | Qubits |
|--------|--------|
| `arn:aws:braket:eu-north-1::device/qpu/iqm/Garnet` | 20 |

### Simulators

| Device | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `arn:aws:braket:::device/quantum-simulator/amazon/sv1` | State vector simulator |
| `arn:aws:braket:::device/quantum-simulator/amazon/dm1` | Density matrix simulator |
| `arn:aws:braket:::device/quantum-simulator/amazon/tn1` | Tensor network simulator |

!!! note
    Device ARNs and availability change. Check the [Braket Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/braket) for current devices.

## Usage

### Dispatch to Braket Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/wit.example.json \
    --provider braket \
    --device "arn:aws:braket:us-east-1::device/qpu/ionq/Aria-1"
```

### Dispatch to Braket Simulator

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/wit.example.json \
    --provider braket \
    --device "arn:aws:braket:::device/quantum-simulator/amazon/sv1"
```

### Poll Results

```bash
mgym job poll <JOB_ID>
```

## Pricing

AWS Braket charges:
- Per-task fees (fixed cost per job)
- Per-shot fees (varies by device)
- Simulator fees (per minute of compute time)

Use resource estimation to plan:

```bash
mgym job estimate config.json --provider braket
```

See [AWS Braket Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/braket/pricing/) for details.

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors

Verify credentials:

```python
import boto3
client = boto3.client('braket')
print(client.search_devices(filters=[]))
```

### Region Issues

Some devices are only available in specific regions. Ensure your `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` matches the device location.

### Insufficient Permissions

Your IAM user/role needs the `AmazonBraketFullAccess` policy or equivalent permissions.

Commit message:

chore: do not explicitly list devices from providers

docs/content/providers/braket.md, after:

# AWS Braket

Run benchmarks on quantum computers through Amazon Braket.

## Prerequisites

- An [AWS account](https://aws.amazon.com)
- AWS credentials with Braket permissions
- (Optional) An S3 bucket for job results

## Setup

### 1. Get AWS Credentials

1. Log in to the [AWS Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com)
2. Navigate to **IAM > Users > Your User > Security credentials**
3. Create an access key

### 2. Configure Environment

Add to your `.env` file:

```bash
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<your-access-key>"
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<your-secret-key>"
```

Optionally, set your default region:

```bash
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
```

## Discovering Devices

AWS Braket provides access to multiple hardware providers (IonQ, Rigetti, IQM) and simulators. Device availability changes frequently.

To see currently available devices:

```python
from qbraid.runtime import load_provider

provider = load_provider("braket")
for device in provider.get_devices():
    print(f"{device.id}: {device.status}")
```

Or check the [Braket Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/braket) for current devices and their ARNs.

## Usage

### Dispatch to Braket Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/wit.example.json \
    --provider braket \
    --device "arn:aws:braket:us-east-1::device/qpu/ionq/Aria-1"
```

### Dispatch to Braket Simulator

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/wit.example.json \
    --provider braket \
    --device "arn:aws:braket:::device/quantum-simulator/amazon/sv1"
```

### Poll Results

```bash
mgym job poll <JOB_ID>
```

## Pricing

AWS Braket charges:
- Per-task fees (fixed cost per job)
- Per-shot fees (varies by device)
- Simulator fees (per minute of compute time)

Use resource estimation to plan:

```bash
mgym job estimate config.json --provider braket
```

See [AWS Braket Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/braket/pricing/) for details.

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors

Verify credentials:

```python
import boto3
client = boto3.client('braket')
print(client.search_devices(filters=[]))
```

### Region Issues

Some devices are only available in specific regions. Ensure your `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` matches the device location.

### Insufficient Permissions

Your IAM user/role needs the `AmazonBraketFullAccess` policy or equivalent permissions.
