docs/content/providers/ibm.md, before:

# IBM Quantum

Run benchmarks on IBM Quantum hardware through the IBM Quantum Platform.

## Prerequisites

- An [IBM Quantum](https://quantum.ibm.com) account
- An IBM Cloud API key

## Setup

### 1. Get Your API Key

1. Log in to [IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com)
2. Navigate to **Manage > Access (IAM) > API keys**
3. Create a new API key or use an existing one

### 2. Configure Environment

Add to your `.env` file:

```bash
# Required
QISKIT_IBM_TOKEN="<your-ibm-cloud-api-key>"

# Optional
QISKIT_IBM_CHANNEL="ibm_quantum_platform"  # or "ibm_quantum"
QISKIT_IBM_INSTANCE="<instance-crn>"       # for specific instance access
```

## Discovering Devices

Device availability depends on your IBM Quantum plan and changes frequently. To see your available devices:

```python
from qbraid.runtime import load_provider

provider = load_provider("ibm")
for device in provider.get_devices():
    print(f"{device.id}: {device.num_qubits} qubits - {device.status}")
```

Or visit [quantum.ibm.com](https://quantum.ibm.com) to check your dashboard.

## Usage

### Dispatch to IBM Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/bseq.example.json \
    --provider ibm --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

### Example Output

```
Starting dispatch on ibm:ibm_sherbrooke...
Dispatching BSEQ benchmark from bseq.example.json on ibm_sherbrooke...
Job dispatched with ID: 93a06a18-41d8-475a-a030-339fbf3accb9
```

### Poll Results

```bash
mgym job poll 93a06a18-41d8-475a-a030-339fbf3accb9
```

If the job is queued:
```
Job is queued at position 5. Please try again later.
```

When complete:
```
BSEQResult(largest_connected_size=100, fraction_connected=0.7874)
```

## Noise Model Simulation

Run benchmarks locally with IBM device noise models:

```bash
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider local --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

This uses Qiskit Aer with the noise model from the specified IBM device.

## Resource Estimation

Estimate job resources before dispatch:

```bash
mgym job estimate metriq_gym/schemas/examples/bseq.example.json \
    --provider ibm --device ibm_fez
```

## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors

Ensure your API key is valid and has appropriate permissions:

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService
service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum_platform")
print(service.backends())
```

### Device Unavailable

Check device status on the IBM Quantum Platform. Devices may be:
- Under maintenance
- Reserved for specific access levels
- Temporarily offline

### Queue Times

IBM Quantum jobs may experience long queue times during peak usage. Consider:
- Using simulators for development
- Scheduling jobs during off-peak hours
- Using fair-share queuing through instance selection

Commit message:

Update docs with IBMSampler provider details

docs/content/providers/ibm.md, after:

# IBM Quantum

Run benchmarks on IBM Quantum hardware through the IBM Quantum Platform.

## Prerequisites

- An [IBM Quantum](https://quantum.ibm.com) account
- An IBM Cloud API key

## Setup

### 1. Get Your API Key

1. Log in to [IBM Cloud](https://cloud.ibm.com)
2. Navigate to **Manage > Access (IAM) > API keys**
3. Create a new API key or use an existing one

### 2. Configure Environment

Add to your `.env` file:

```bash
# Required
QISKIT_IBM_TOKEN="<your-ibm-cloud-api-key>"

# Optional
QISKIT_IBM_CHANNEL="ibm_quantum_platform"  # or "ibm_quantum"
QISKIT_IBM_INSTANCE="<instance-crn>"       # for specific instance access
```

## Discovering Devices

Device availability depends on your IBM Quantum plan and changes frequently. To see your available devices:

```python
from qbraid.runtime import load_provider

provider = load_provider("ibm")
for device in provider.get_devices():
    print(f"{device.id}: {device.num_qubits} qubits - {device.status}")
```

Or visit [quantum.ibm.com](https://quantum.ibm.com) to check your dashboard.

## Usage

### Dispatch to IBM Hardware

```bash
mgym job dispatch metriq_gym/schemas/examples/bseq.example.json \
    --provider ibm --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

### Example Output

```
Starting dispatch on ibm:ibm_sherbrooke...
Dispatching BSEQ benchmark from bseq.example.json on ibm_sherbrooke...
Job dispatched with ID: 93a06a18-41d8-475a-a030-339fbf3accb9
```

### Poll Results

```bash
mgym job poll 93a06a18-41d8-475a-a030-339fbf3accb9
```

If the job is queued:
```
Job is queued at position 5. Please try again later.
```

When complete:
```
BSEQResult(largest_connected_size=100, fraction_connected=0.7874)
```

## Noise Model Simulation

Run benchmarks locally with IBM device noise models:

```bash
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider local --device ibm_sherbrooke
```

This uses Qiskit Aer with the noise model from the specified IBM device.

## Resource Estimation

Estimate job resources before dispatch:

```bash
mgym job estimate metriq_gym/schemas/examples/bseq.example.json \
    --provider ibm --device ibm_fez
```

## IBM Sampler Provider

For benchmarks that benefit from IBM Runtime's SamplerV2 features — such as **sessions**, **parameterized circuits**, and **gate twirling** — use the `ibm_sampler` provider instead of `ibm`.

The `ibm_sampler` provider uses the same credentials and devices as `ibm`, but submits jobs through `SamplerV2` rather than the default `backend.run()` path. This enables:

- **Sessions**: Keeps the backend allocated across multiple circuit submissions for lower latency (enabled by default, can be disabled).
- **Parameterized circuits**: Sends a single template circuit with parameter arrays, letting the runtime bind parameters server-side for higher throughput.
- **Gate twirling**: Delegates circuit randomization to the Sampler's built-in twirler, useful for error-mitigated workloads.

As of this writing, only the CLOPS benchmark benefits from these extra features.

### Usage

```bash
# Dispatch with SamplerV2 features
mgym job dispatch config.json --provider ibm_sampler --device ibm_brisbane
```



## Troubleshooting

### Authentication Errors

Ensure your API key is valid and has appropriate permissions:

```python
from qiskit_ibm_runtime import QiskitRuntimeService
service = QiskitRuntimeService(channel="ibm_quantum_platform")
print(service.backends())
```

### Device Unavailable

Check device status on the IBM Quantum Platform. Devices may be:
- Under maintenance
- Reserved for specific access levels
- Temporarily offline

### Queue Times

IBM Quantum jobs may experience long queue times during peak usage. Consider:
- Using simulators for development
- Scheduling jobs during off-peak hours
- Using fair-share queuing through instance selection
